>> Jafar Husain: I'm gonna
comment out our consumption code.
>> Jafar Husain: Uh-oh, file not found.
Not sure why that is but, hmm.
That seems kinda suspect, right?
Probably made a mistake
somewhere if I see that.
>> Jafar Husain: Let's see.
>> Jafar Husain: Indices map.
>> Jafar Husain: I think
something's off about this.
>> Jafar Husain: So,
I wanted to do this in class, so
that we could also go over debugging,
right?
Debugging's always an important
topic when we're doing these things.
How do you debug an observable?
Anybody have any ideas?
>> Student1: Do?
>> Jafar Husain: Do, excellent,
all right, we got a ringer here.
Yes, do,
that is how you debug an observable.
What do essentially allows you to
do is perform some side effect
whenever an item is
admitted from a stream.
And a good side effect is sometimes just,
either logging to the console, but
my personal favorite is actually
just throwing a debug or
semicolon statement in there.
So, a lot of people think, you can't
debug observables, but it's not true.
You can actually put a debugger semicolon
statement inside of any function,
your map function, etc and
sort of get a read on what's going on.
So, the first thing I'd like to know is,
I'm pretty confident this is an images
array, cuz we tested that before, right?
I'm wondering what's going on in here.
If there is even anything
going on in here.
>> Student2: I see-
>> Jafar Husain: Yeah?
>> Student2: I think it's an es6 problem.
>> Student2: Did you have
the brackets there before?
>> Jafar Husain: I just put them in.
>> Student2: Okay nevermind.
>> Jafar Husain: So this is, by the way,
when you want to debug, you take the arrow
function and you put brackets in here so
that you can put statements inside.
And then you put a debugger semicolon,
does that make sense, everybody?
And I also put a debugger in here just so
I see what's going on.
And now let's rerun this.
Okay, interesting,
notice we didn't hit this right here.
Hmm, wonder what's up with that.
It wants the URL at least?
Look, it's an observable.
Well, that's not gonna work.
So, it looks like we actually have
a two-dimensional observable still.
I'm not entirely sure why, but
that's usually what that indicates, right?
If we get on next in an observable, it
means we haven't done enough flattening.
So maybe I was wrong.
Maybe we have a three-dimensional
observable or something.
So, let's see if we can
get to the bottom of that.
All right, so,
the url is indeed an observable.
>> Jafar Husain: Right, so
earlier we thought we're just mapping
over this observable, right?
They must still be flat.
But it's not, right?
If I do this,
>> Jafar Husain: Right?
I'm still mapping over that observable,
but
the problem is I'm returning
another observable for
every item in the observable, which means
I get an extra level of dimensionality.
And in here, what are we doing?
For every images array we're
returning an observable, right?
We're taking this indices and
we're mapping over it.
So, we actually ended up with
a three-dimensional observable.
Mind blown, right?
Well the reality is, deeply nested
observables are actually not so
hard because generally speaking,
as you go, you're flattening them, right?
Every time you get into a new
level of dimensionality,
you say, how would I flatten this thing?
And then you pick one of
the three flattening strategies.
Until finally you go from how
ever many levels deep to one.
S,o let's put this down here.
>> Jafar Husain: I like
the shorter form myself.
>> Jafar Husain: Okay,
so, it seems like we
still have a two-dimensional observable.
But how are we gonna flatten
this level right here?
>> Student2: We could use
a merge map there, sort of map.
>> Jafar Husain: Yeah, sure, all right,
no need to be creative here.
That would definitely flatten it.
Is it the right flat?
>> Jafar Husain: So, every single time
we get a new array of images, right,
we're gonna create this stream of images,
right?
But what happens when
a new sub is selected?
Right?
What we're really trying to decide here
is, actually, let's take a step back here.
Before we focus on this inner
two-dimensional observable,
let's focus on the outer one.
So, every single time a new sub is
selected, we're going to go and
get the SubImages for that sub, right.
We'll create another
observable right here.
But what happens if a new
sub is immediately selected,
while we're still loading the data for
the previous sub?
>> Jafar Husain: What do we wanna do?
Do we wanna merge all?
>> Student3: You're gonna
wanna switch [CROSSTALK]
>> Jafar Husain: You might wanna
switch latest, right?
Cuz I don't care about
the data from the old sub.
So, instead of merge all, switchLatest.
Okay, so with that in mind now let's
talk about the inner one, right?
Once I get images,
I'm immediately gonna return unobservable,
and as you move left and right, right?
We're gonna return new images URLs For
the corresponding index in that array.
What's the flattening
strategy I wanna use here?
>> Student2: Switch latest?
>> Jafar Husain: Switch latest?
Honestly, it doesn't really much matter in
this particular case because getSubImages
is only an observable of one.
Does that make sense?
Because it's only an observable one,
it really doesn't matter what flattening
pattern we use in this context.
So, given that, the cheapest one,
it's actually roughly the cheapest one,
is to use switchLatest.
Does that make sense?
Is that clear to everybody?
If you have an observable of one, right,
it's not gonna make any difference.
We're always gonna return
this indices observable.
So,
>> Jafar Husain: Are we done?
Maybe we can at least try it, right?
I think we might actually get something
going here if we tried this one.
>> Jafar Husain: Maybe not,
it's angry about switchLatest.
>> Jafar Husain: Why is it angry?
>> Jafar Husain: Usually it
displays the error there,
switchLatest is not a function.
I'm guessing I made some sort of mistake
here, cuz switchLatest is definitely
a function on an observable,
which is what gets returned for map.
This dot shouldn't be here.
Right?
Or should it?
[LAUGH] Any eagle eyes out
there spot what I did wrong?
That dot should be there,
cuz that's hw you can switchLatest here.
I feel like I've done something wrong.
>> Jafar Husain: I got a return missing.
>> Student4: You're missing
a parentheses on line 70?
>> Jafar Husain: I think I would've gotten
a syntax error, but you said which one?
Line 70?
>> Student4: It might just be my error.
>> Jafar Husain: It's always good to try
and reduce these things a little bit.
>> Jafar Husain: All
the parentheses look lined up.
>> Jafar Husain: It's probably that,
though, I've probably got something off if
I've got an error where it says
there is no switchLatest method,
hmm,
>> Jafar Husain: Sync
the map looks all good to me, actually.
One of these returning a switchLatest.
I'll try that one more time.
>> Jafar Husain: So we can still
debug these things, of course.
I'm gonna see what actually
comes back from this.
An observable
>> Jafar Husain: And
do I actually have a switchLatest or
a map or anything like that?
>> Jafar Husain: Maybe brackets
around the whole thing.
>> Jafar Husain: Doesn't Chrome
usually autocomplete here for me?
That's a little bit odd, right?
Why don't we try a little assignment?
>> Student5: Got two minutes.
>> Jafar Husain: [LAUGH] Thanks, guys.
>> Jafar Husain: Oops, my bad.
>> Jafar Husain: Okay.
>> Jafar Husain: Hmm.
[LAUGH] new RX it's been renamed.
It's not switchLatest,
I think it's switch.
At least that's what I think's going on,
so sorry about that.
>> Jafar Husain: Let's give that a shot.
>> Jafar Husain: Okay, not quite where
we wanna be, I don't see any images.
Why don't I see images, actually?
We kind of expect that we're
gonna get zero first, right?
But actually,
that's not the way that scan works.
Scan doesn't emit the accumulator first.
>> Jafar Husain: So, if you give it
an initial value, it doesn't emit it.
We want indices to be
not just the changes.
Much like sub, we don't want just the
changes, we want some initial value and
then all of the changes.
And so because scan doesn't initially emit
zero, how can we make sure that zero leaps
out of indices whenever we
subscribe to it as the first value?
>> Student2: We can
concatenate it with zero?
>> Jafar Husain: Yes,
we can concatenate it on to the front.
>> Jafar Husain: There's actually shorter
forms of this, like starts with and
things like that, but
I'll just keep it like this for now.
>> Jafar Husain: So,
I think that was our problem,
that we were subscribing to
the observable but it hadn't fired.
And therefore, we don't pull
the first value out of the array.
>> Jafar Husain: So
let's try this time, come on.
Already getting somewhere.